# What is Jupyter?


Jupyter is an amazing tool. It allows "mixing" explanatory text with a
piece of the program and seeing the result in the same document. Which
is a good help for programming, documenting, seeing potential bugs, and
just making it more fun.

[[https://github.com/jupyter/notebook]{.underline}](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook)

One obvious use is as an ideal way to "document" code. Seeing the result
of a piece of code helps to understand it better. In addition, it allows
you to \"copy\" and \"paste\", that result either to be able to refine
the help or to \"redo\" code.

The reader can more easily interact with the code, change some data and
see how it behaves.

In short, it is not impossible to do otherwise. You can do something
similar by writing, compiling, and running a program. The result is
displayed in the console, you can see, copy the result and paste it
somewhere to document the code or reuse it in some way in the code
itself. The difference is that with Jupyter it is much faster, clearer,
more organized, more intuitive and natural.

{width="6.267716535433071in"
height="4.444444444444445in"}

Jupyter can interface with many languages, although its most popular
uses are Python and R. If you want to learn one of them, you can use
Jupyter scripting documents to experiment with the language.

But a much more interesting use is to be able to experiment with a
library of tools and components. Although the language is well
understood, by easily using high-level code and objects from a complex
library, you can obtain results that are not obvious to the naked eye,
interact with code and results, allow you to \"play\" quickly with what
is written, without going through the \"long\" process of writing,
compiling, running, getting results, documenting and starting over.
There are many libraries that can be used in Python for numerical
analysis and focused on Machine learning. And not all of them are made
in Python, many are made in C and are connected as a DLL.

If you know the library because you have made it yourself, you can
document it better or create small pieces of program as \"test\", with
which to look for potential errors or simply to be able to verify
results easily.

\"Jupyter notebook\" , needs Python to work. For this reason, almost all
forms of "connecting" involve doing it through him. And I will use
Python4Delphi as it allows us to create python elements from delphi and
vice versa. Besides Python is easy to learn and if you don\'t know it I
recommend that you learn it, because it has a great future and you can
reuse your pascal code in python libraries.